Paper: A Novel Pipeline for Cell Instance Segmentation, Tracking and Motility Classification of Toxoplasma Gondii in 3D Space (#707)
scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings: papers/alireza_vaezi/paper.rst

:author: Seyed Alireza Vaezi
:email: sv22900@uga.edu
:institution: University of Georgia

:author: Gianni Orlando
:email: gro68561@uga.edu
:institution: University of Georgia

:author: Mojtaba Fazli
:email: mfazli@meei.harvard.edu
:institution: harvard University

:author: Gary Ward
:email: Gary.Ward@uvm.edu
:institution: University of Vermont

:author: Silvia Moreno
:email: smoreno@uga.edu
:institution: University of Georgia

:author: Shannon Quinn
:email: spq@uga.edu
:institution: University of Georgia

:bibliography: paper

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Novel Pipeline for Cell Instance Segmentation, Tracking and Motility Classification of Toxoplasma Gondii in 3D Space
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. class:: abstract

>    Toxoplasma gondii is the parasitic protozoan that causes disseminated toxoplasmosis, a disease that is estimated to infect around one-third of the world's population. While the disease is commonly asymptomatic, the success of the parasite is in large part due to its ability to easily spread through nucleated cells. The virulence of T. gondii is predicated on the parasite's motility. Thus the inspection of motility patterns during its lytic cycle has become a topic of keen interest. Current cell tracking projects usually focus on cell images captured in 2D which are not a true representative of the actual motion of a cell. Current 3D tracking projects lack a comprehensive pipeline covering all phases of preprocessing, cell detection, cell instance segmentation, tracking, and motion classification, and merely implement a subset of the phases. Moreover, current 3D segmentation and tracking pipelines are not targeted for users with less experience in deep learning packages. Our pipeline, on the other hand, is developed for segmenting, tracking, and classification of motility phenotypes of T. gondii in 3D microscopic images. Although the pipeline is built initially focusing on T. gondii, it provides generic functions to allow users with similar but distinct applications to use it off-the-shelf. Interacting with all of our pipeline's modules is possible through our Napari plugin which is developed mainly off the familiar SciPy scientific stack. Additionally, our plugin is designed with a user-friendly GUI in Napari which adds several benefits to each step of the pipeline such as visualization and representation in 3D.  Our pipeline proves to be able to cover a broad spectrum of applications with considerable results.

Reviewer: - "which are not a true representative" -> either "which are not true representatives" or "which are not a true representation"? (grammar)
- "segmenting, tracking, and classification of" -> "segmenting, tracking, and classifying"? (to make "segmenting" and "classifying" match)
- "with considerable results" -> it's not clear what this means; perhaps the phrase could be re-written or dropped altogether?

Author: Done! Thank you very much for the suggestions.

.. class:: keywords
   Toxoplasma, Segmentation, Napari

Introduction
------------

> Quantitative cell research often requires the measurement of different cell properties including the size, shape, and motility. This step is facilitated using the segmentation of imaged cells. Using fluorescent markers, computational tools can be used to complete segmentation and identify cell features and positions over time. 2D measurements of cells can be useful, but the more difficult task of deriving 3D information from cell images is vital for metrics such as motility and volumetric qualities. Toxoplasmosis is an infection caused by the intracellular parasite Toxoplasma gondii. T. gondii is one of the most successful parasites and at least one-third of the world's population is infected with the parasite. Although Toxoplasmosis is generally benign in healthy individuals, the infection has fatal implications in fetuses and immunocompromised individuals :cite:`saadatnia2012review` . T. gondii's virulence is directly linked to its lytic cycle which is comprised of invasion, replication, egress, and motility. Studying the motility of T. gondii is crucial in understanding its lytic cycle to develop potential treatments. 

Reviewer: - "including the size, shape, and motility" -> "including size, shape, and motility" (either remove "the" or substitute with "their")
- "the segmentation" -> "segmentation" ("the" not needed here)
- "Using fluorescent markers" -> "With fluorescent markers" (too much usage of "use" in the sentence)
- "Toxoplasmosis is an infection..." -> start a new paragraph here (since a new topic starts)
- "T. gondii is one of the most successful parasites and at least one-third of the world's population is infected with the parasite." -> "T. gondii is one of the most successful parasites, **infecting at least one-third of the world's population**." (more clearly connect "success" to "infecting")
- "...understanding its lytic cycle to develop potential treatments" -> maybe "...understanding its lytic cycle **in order** to develop potential treatments"

Author: Done!

> For this reason, we present a novel pipeline to detect, segment, track, and classify the motility pattern of T. gondii in 3D space. Our pipeline is easy to use for users with limited knowledge in programming, Machine Learning, or Computer Vision technicalities. We also aimed to make it applicable in a broader scope of applications right off the shelf. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, we present a novel pipeline to detect, segment, track, and classify the motility pattern of T. gondii in 3D space. Our pipeline is easy to use for studying T. gondii and also can be used in a broader scope of applications right off the shelf. 
```

> Most of the state-of-the-art pipelines are restricted to 2D space which is not a true representative of the actual motion of the organism. Many require knowledge and expertise in programming or Machine Learning and Deep Learning models and frameworks, limiting the demographic of users that can use them. All of the pipelines solely include a subset of the aforementioned modules (i.e. detection, segmentation, tracking, and classification). And many of them rely on the user to train their own model hand-tailored for their specific application. This demands high levels of experience and skill in ML/DL and consequently undermines the possibility and feasibility of quickly utilizing an off-the-shelf pipeline and still getting good results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the state-of-the-art pipelines are restricted to 2D space which is not a true representative of the actual motion of the organism. Many of them require knowledge and expertise in programming, or in machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) models and frameworks, thus limiting the demographic of users that can use them. All of them solely include a subset of the aforementioned modules (i.e. detection, segmentation, tracking, and classification). Many pipelines rely on the user to train their own model, hand-tailored for their specific application. This demands high levels of experience and skill in ML/DL and consequently undermines the possibility and feasibility of quickly utilizing an off-the-shelf pipeline and still getting good results.
```

Do you have citation(s) to add to this paragraph so readers know exactly which pipelines you're referring to, or somewhere where they can read about them?

> To address these we present our pipeline that segments T. gondii cells in 3D microscopic images, tracks their trajectories, and classifies the motion patterns observed throughout the 3D frames. Our pipeline is comprised of four modules: pre-processing, segmentation, tracking, and classification. We developed our pipeline as a plugin for Napari - an open-source fast and interactive image viewer for Python designed for browsing, annotating, and analyzing large multi-dimensional images. Having our pipeline implemented as a part of Napari not only provides a user-friendly design but also gives more advanced users the possibility to attach and execute their custom code and even interact with the steps of the pipeline if needed. The preprocessing module is equipped with basic and extra filters and functionalities to aid in the preparation of the input data. Our pipeline gives its users the advantage of utilizing the functionalities that PlantSeg, VollSeg, and CellPose provide. These functionalities can be chosen in the pre-processing, detection, and segmentation steps. This brings forth a huge variety of algorithms and pre-build models to select from, making our pipeline a great fit for a greater scope of applications other than Toxoplasma gondii.

Reviewer: - Please cite Napari: https://napari.org/#citing-napari
- "PlantSeg, VollSeg, and CellPose" - these are mentioned with no context about what they are or where they come from
- "pre-build" -> pre-built
- There have been three mentions so far of applying this pipeline to a greater/broader/etc. scope of applications, without any mention as to what those applications are. Please consider listing some examples with one of the earlier statements.

> PlantSeg uses a variant of 3D U-Net, called Residual 3D U-Net, for preprocessing and segmentation of multiple cell types :cite:`plantseg`. PlantSeg performs best among Deep Learning algorithms for 3D Instance Segmentation and is very robust against image noise :cite:`Kar2021.06.09.447748`. The segmentation module also includes the optional use of CellPose :cite:`stringer2021cellpose`. CellPose is a generalized segmentation algorithm trained on a wide range of cell types and is the first step toward increased optionality in our pipeline. The Cell Tracking module consolidates the cell particles across the z-axis to materialize cells in 3D space and estimates centroids for each cell. The tracking module is also responsible for extracting the trajectories of cells based on the movements of centroids throughout consecutive video frames, which is eventually the input of the motion classifier module.

Reviewer: Consider moving this paragraph before the one that references "state-of-the-art pipelines" and adding an introductory sentence about the topic, e.g., commonly used tools in quantitative cell research. Also, are "pipelines" and the referenced Python packages one and the same, or is a pipeline a composition of packages, or something else?

> The rest of this paper is structured as follows: After briefly reviewing the literature in Related Work, we move on to thoroughly describe the details of our work in the Method section. Following that, the Results section depicts the results of comprehensive tests of our plugin on T. gondii cells.

Reviewer: - "thoroughly" seems subjective and superfluous - consider removing it?

Author: Done.

Related Work
------------

> The recent solutions in generalized and automated segmentation tools are focused on 2D cell images. Segmentation of cellular structures in 2D is important but not representative of realistic environments. Microbiological organisms are free to move on the Z-axis and tracking without that factor is a disservice to the research integrity. The focus on 2D research is understandable due to several factors. 3D data is difficult to capture as tools for capturing 3D slices and the computational requirements for analyzing this data are not available in most research labs. Most segmentation tools are unable to track objects in 3D space as the assignment of related centroids is more difficult. The additional noise from capture and focus increases the probability of incorrect assignment. 3D data also has issues with overlapping features and increased computation required per frame of time.

Reviewer: - "Z-axis" -> z-axis
- "tracking without that factor is a disservice to the research integrity" - is it possible to quantify this statement? What specific effects do not tracking the third dimension have on "research integrity"? Why is tracking in 2D not a valid approximation?

Author: Sorry about that! My teammate was a bit dramatic in here!

> Fazli et al. :cite:`fazli2018unsupervised` studies the motility patterns of T. gondii and provides a computational pipeline for identifying motility phenotypes of T. gondii in an unsupervised, data-driven way. In that work Ca2+ is added to T. gondii cells inside a Fetal Bovine Serum. T. gondii cells react to Ca2+ and become motile and fluorescent. The images of motile T. gondii cells were captured using an LSM 710 confocal microscope. They use Python 3 and associated scientific computing libraries (NummPy, SciPy, scikit-learn, matplotlib) in their pipeline to track and cluster the trajectories of T. gondii. Based on this work Fazli et al. :cite:`fazli2018toward` work on another pipeline consisting of preprocessing, sparsification, cell detection, and cell tracking modules to track T. gondii in 3D video microscopy where each frame of the video consists of image slices taken 1 micro-meters of focal depth apart along the z-axis direction. In their last work Fazli et al. :cite:`fazli2019lightweight` developed a lightweight and scalable pipeline using task distribution and parallelism. Their pipeline consists of multiple modules: reprocessing, sparsification, cell detection, cell tracking, trajectories extraction, parametrization of the trajectories, and clustering. They could classify three distinct motion patterns in T. gondii using the same data from their previous work. 

Reviewer: - "NummPy" -> NumPy
- Please consider citing SciPy scientific stack libraries, if you feel its relevant. See the following:
  - https://numpy.org/citing-numpy/
  - https://scipy.org/citing-scipy/
  - https://scikit-learn.org/stable/about.html#citing-scikit-learn
  - https://matplotlib.org/stable/users/project/citing.html
- "In their last work" -> "In their latest work"

Author: Done.

> While combining open source tools is not a novel architecture, little has been done to integrate 3D cell tracking tools. Fazeli et al. :cite:`fazeli2020automated` motivated by the same interest in providing better tools to non-software professionals created a 2D cell tracking pipeline. This pipeline combines Stardist and TrackMate for automated cell tracking. This pipeline begins with the user loading cell images and centroid approximations to the ZeroCostDL4Mic platform. ZeroCostDL4Mic is a deep learning training tool for those with no coding expertise. Once the platform is trained and masks for the training set are made for hand-drawn annotations, the training set can be input to Stardist. Stardist performs automated object detection using Euclidean distance to probabilistically determine cell pixels versus background pixels. Lastly, Trackmate uses segmentation images to track labels between timeframes and display analytics. 

Reviewer: - "motivated by the same interest in providing better tools to non-software professionals" - would it be worth including something about this objective in the paragraph above starting with "For this reason"? It seems to be a main objective of the work described in this paper.
- Stardist and TrackMate - add citations?
- ZeroCostDL4Mic - citation?

This Stardist pipeline is similar in concept to our pipeline. Both create an automated segmentation and tracking pipeline but our pipeline is oriented to 3D data. Cells move in 3-dimensional space that is not represented in a flat plane. Our pipeline also does not require the manual training necessary for the other pipeline. Individuals with low technical expertise should not be expected to create masks for training or even understand the training of deep neural networks. Lastly, this pipeline does not account for imperfect datasets without the need for preprocessing. All implemented algorithms in our pipeline account for microscopy images with some amount of noise.  

> Wen et al. :cite:`Wen2021-bn` combines multiple existing new technologies including deep learning and presents 3DeeCellTracker. 3DeeCellTracker segments and tracks cells on 3D time-lapse images. Using a small subset of their dataset they train the deep learning architecture, 3D U-Net, for segmentation. For tracking, a combination of two strategies was used to increase accuracy; local cell region strategies, and, spatial pattern strategy. Kapoor et al. :cite:`kapoor2021cell` presents VollSeg that uses deep learning methods to segment, track, and track analysis of cells in 3D with irregular shape and intensity distribution. It is a Jupyter Notebook-based python package and also has a UI in Napari. For tracking, a custom tracking code is developed based on Trackmate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wen et al. :cite:`Wen2021-bn` combines multiple existing new technologies including deep learning and presents 3DeeCellTracker. 3DeeCellTracker segments and tracks cells on 3D time-lapse images. Using a small subset of their dataset they train the deep learning architecture 3D U-Net for segmentation. For tracking, a combination of two strategies was used to increase accuracy: local cell region strategies, and spatial pattern strategy. Kapoor et al. :cite:`kapoor2021cell` presents VollSeg that uses deep learning methods to segment, track, and analyze cells in 3D with irregular shape and intensity distribution. It is a Jupyter Notebook-based Python package and also has a UI in Napari. For tracking, a custom tracking code is developed based on Trackmate.
```

Ireland) cooled to -70oC and driven by NIS Elements software (Nikon Instruments, Melville, NY) as part of related research by Dr. Gary Ward :cite:`10.1371/journal.pone.0085763`. The camera was set to frame transfer sensor mode, with a vertical pixel shift speed of 1:0 µs, vertical clock voltage amplitude of +1, readout speed of 35MHz, conversion gain of 3:8×, EM gain setting of 3 and 22 binning, and the z-slices were imaged with an exposure time of 16ms.

Software
++++++++
Napari Plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> TSeg is developed as a plugin for Napari - a fast and interactive multi-dimensional image viewer for python that allows volumetric viewing of 3D images [cite napari website]. Plugins enable developers to customize and extend the functionality of Napari. For every module of our pipeline, we developed its corresponding widget in the GUI, plus a widget for file management. The widgets have self-explanatory interface elements with tooltips to guide the inexperienced user to traverse through the pipeline with ease. Layers in Napari are the basic viewable objects that can be shown in the Napari viewer. Seven different layer types are supported in Napari: *Image, Labels, Points, Shapes, Surface, Tracks,* and *Vectors*, each of which corresponds to a different data type, visualization, and interactivity [cite napari website]. After its execution, the viewable output of each widget gets added to the layers. This allows the user to evaluate and modify the parameters of the widget to get the best results before continuing to the next widget. Napari supports bidirectional communication between the viewer and the Python kernel and has a built-in console that allows users to control all the features of the viewer programmatically. This adds more flexibility and customizability to TSeg for the advanced user. The full code of TSeg is available on GitHub under the MIT open source license at https://github.com/salirezav/napari-seg. TSeg can be installed through Napari's plugins menu.

Reviewer: - "[cite napari website]" - were you planning to add this?

Author: Yes. I replaced them.

Motion Classification
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To classify the motility pattern of T. gondii in 3D space in an unsupervised fashion we implement and use the method that Fazli et. al. introduced :cite:`fazli2019lightweight`. In that work, they used an autoregressive model; a linear dynamical system that encodes a Markov-based transition prediction method. The reason being although K-Means is a favorable clustering algorithm there are a few drawbacks to it and to the conventional methods that draw them impractical. Firstly, K-Means assumes Euclidian distance, but AR motion parameters are geodesics that do not reside in a Euclidean space, and secondly, K-means assumes isotropic clusters, however, although AR motion parameters may exhibit isotropy in their space, without a proper distance metric, this issue cannot be clearly examined :cite:`fazli2019lightweight`.

Reviewer: Consider breaking up the last sentence in two (it's very long). K-means (should be lower-case "m") and the sentence starting "The reason being" can be re-phrased for clarity. Also, please introduce the abbreviation right after the word it abbreviates, e.g., "autoregressive (AR) model", before using it in later text.

Author: Done! Much appreciated!

Conclusion and Discussion
-------------------------

> Future work on our pipeline will include the expanding of implemented algorithms and completely automated setup scripting. In order to currently run the pipeline, conda must be installed with Plantseg and cellpose environments installed if needed. Ideally, a script should be created to spawn these resources without any additional actions from the end user. Our pipeline aims to be easy-to-use by any party of microscopy researcher thus templates for scripting new segmentation algorithms into the pipeline would make the tool easier to customize. Even segmentation tools that perform suboptimally in comparison to cellpose and Plantseg should be "plug-in" options for research use. Stardust and computationally non-intensive segmentation would create a flexible tool for researchers without access to GPU machines. 

Reviewer: Please re-work this paragraph to be grammatically correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Future work on our pipeline will include the expanding of implemented algorithms and completely automated setup scripting. In order to currently run the pipeline, conda must be installed with Plantseg and cellpose environments installed if needed. Ideally, a script should be created to spawn these resources without any additional actions from the end user. Our pipeline aims to be easy-to-use by any microscopy researcher, not just those studying T. gondii. Thus, templates for scripting new segmentation algorithms into the pipeline would make the tool easier to customize. Even segmentation tools that perform suboptimally in comparison to cellpose and Plantseg should be "plug-in" options for research use. Stardust and computationally non-intensive segmentation would create a flexible tool for researchers without access to GPU machines. 
```
Does the above capture the intended meaning of "by any party of microscopy researcher"?

Many segmentation tools require some amount of knowledge in Machine or Deep Learning concepts. Training the neural network in creating masks is a common step for open-source segmentation tools. Automating this process makes the pipeline more accessible to microbiology researchers. 

Method
------
Data
++++

Our dataset consists of 11 videos of T. gondii cells under a microscope, obtained from different experiments with different numbers of cells. The videos are on average around 63 frames in length. Each frame has a stack of 41 image slices of size 500×502 pixels along the z-axis (z-slices). The z-slices are captured 1µm apart in optical focal length making them 402µm×401µm×40µm in volume. The slices were recorded in raw format as RGB TIF images but are converted to grayscale for our purpose. This data is captured using a PlanApo 20x objective (NA = 0:75) on a preheated Nikon Eclipse TE300 epifluorescence microscope. The image stacks were captured using an iXon 885 EMCCD camera (Andor Technology, Belfast,

> Ireland) cooled to -70oC and driven by NIS Elements software (Nikon Instruments, Melville, NY) as part of related research by Dr. Gary Ward :cite:`10.1371/journal.pone.0085763`. The camera was set to frame transfer sensor mode, with a vertical pixel shift speed of 1:0 µs, vertical clock voltage amplitude of +1, readout speed of 35MHz, conversion gain of 3:8×, EM gain setting of 3 and 22 binning, and the z-slices were imaged with an exposure time of 16ms.

Reviewer: - :cite:`10.1371/journal.pone.0085763` - this citation should refer to an entry in the references, not a DOI

Author: > @salirezav friendly warning that we're publishing the finalized version of the proceedings this weekend. Please finish your changes before then.
> 
> Also, @mepa has warned me that there are some shenanigans in your git history that might cause disruptions to the other papers. If you don't feel comfortable editing a change history by hand (i.e. with git rebase -e) I can take care of it. That's going to require either me force-pushing to this branch, or closing this PR and opening a new one with a different change history -- so please don't be alarmed if this doesn't get merged. We'll still get your paper into the proceedings!

Hi. Thank you very much for the reminder. I am finalizing things and changes will be done and submitted before midnight.

I performed `git revert -m` on the problematic merge commits a few days ago, but I don't know if it solved the problem. I am going to do a `git rebase -e` as well. Please let me know if it resolves the issue.

Reviewer: Thanks for fixing the citation. It looks good now!

Most of the state-of-the-art pipelines are restricted to 2D space which is not a true representative of the actual motion of the organism. Many of them require knowledge and expertise in programming, or in machine learning and deep learning models and frameworks, thus limiting the demographic of users that can use them. All of them solely include a subset of the aforementioned modules (i.e. detection, segmentation, tracking, and classification) :cite:`stringer2021cellpose`. Many pipelines rely on the user to train their own model, hand-tailored for their specific application. This demands high levels of experience and skill in ML/DL and consequently undermines the possibility and feasibility of quickly utilizing an off-the-shelf pipeline and still getting good results.

> To address these we present TSeg. It segments T. gondii cells in 3D microscopic images, tracks their trajectories, and classifies the motion patterns observed throughout the 3D frames. TSeg is comprised of four modules: pre-processing, segmentation, tracking, and classification. We developed TSeg as a plugin for Napari :cite:`sofroniew_nicholas_2022_6598542` - an open-source fast and interactive image viewer for Python designed for browsing, annotating, and analyzing large multi-dimensional images. Having TSeg implemented as a part of Napari not only provides a user-friendly design but also gives more advanced users the possibility to attach and execute their custom code and even interact with the steps of the pipeline if needed. The preprocessing module is equipped with basic and extra filters and functionalities to aid in the preparation of the input data. TSeg gives its users the advantage of utilizing the functionalities that PlantSeg and CellPose provide. These functionalities can be chosen in the pre-processing, detection, and segmentation steps. This brings forth a huge variety of algorithms and pre-built models to select from, making TSeg not only a great fit for T. gindii, but also a variety of different cell types.

Reviewer: Please add a reference for the following citation in `paper.bib`:
```
:cite:`sofroniew_nicholas_2022_6598542`
```

It doesn't appear in the bibliography, so is getting rendered in the pdf as `[?]`. 

<img width="460" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-30 at 7 54 19 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4421561/181935733-9738e10a-8e8c-448b-bd9b-063ec4930ed1.png">

Author: Thanks for noticing. Fixed!

> While combining open source tools is not a novel architecture, little has been done to integrate 3D cell tracking tools. Fazeli et al. :cite:`fazeli2020automated` motivated by the same interest in providing better tools to non-software professionals created a 2D cell tracking pipeline. This pipeline combines Stardist :cite:`Weigert_2020` and TrackMate :cite:`TINEVEZ201780` for automated cell tracking. This pipeline begins with the user loading cell images and centroid approximations to the ZeroCostDL4Mic :cite:`von2021democratising`platform. ZeroCostDL4Mic is a deep learning training tool for those with no coding expertise. Once the platform is trained and masks for the training set are made for hand-drawn annotations, the training set can be input to Stardist. Stardist performs automated object detection using Euclidean distance to probabilistically determine cell pixels versus background pixels. Lastly, Trackmate uses segmentation images to track labels between timeframes and display analytics. 

Reviewer: Hey @salirezav, it looks like the paper currently isn't building because there needs to be a space between a citation and the next word. Like this:
```suggestion
While combining open source tools is not a novel architecture, little has been done to integrate 3D cell tracking tools. Fazeli et al. :cite:`fazeli2020automated` motivated by the same interest in providing better tools to non-software professionals created a 2D cell tracking pipeline. This pipeline combines Stardist :cite:`Weigert_2020` and TrackMate :cite:`TINEVEZ201780` for automated cell tracking. This pipeline begins with the user loading cell images and centroid approximations to the ZeroCostDL4Mic :cite:`von2021democratising` platform. ZeroCostDL4Mic is a deep learning training tool for those with no coding expertise. Once the platform is trained and masks for the training set are made for hand-drawn annotations, the training set can be input to Stardist. Stardist performs automated object detection using Euclidean distance to probabilistically determine cell pixels versus background pixels. Lastly, Trackmate uses segmentation images to track labels between timeframes and display analytics. 
```

Author: Thanks! Corrected int the last commit.

PlantSeg uses a variant of 3D U-Net, called Residual 3D U-Net, for preprocessing and segmentation of multiple cell types :cite:`plantseg`. PlantSeg performs best among Deep Learning algorithms for 3D Instance Segmentation and is very robust against image noise :cite:`Kar2021.06.09.447748`. The segmentation module also includes the optional use of CellPose :cite:`stringer2021cellpose`. CellPose is a generalized segmentation algorithm trained on a wide range of cell types and is the first step toward increased optionality in our pipeline. The Cell Tracking module consolidates the cell particles across the z-axis to materialize cells in 3D space and estimates centroids for each cell. The tracking module is also responsible for extracting the trajectories of cells based on the movements of centroids throughout consecutive video frames, which is eventually the input of the motion classifier module.

> The rest of this paper is structured as follows: After briefly reviewing the literature in Related Work, we move on to thoroughly describe the details of our work in the Method section. Following that, the Results section depicts the results of comprehensive tests of our plugin on T. gondii cells.

Reviewer: Hi @salirezav! I don't see a corresponding Method section in the paper. Are you planning to push that soon?

Reviewer: Hi! Could you please give an update on when the Method and Results sections will be complete? This will help reviewers be able to plan time for reviewing!
